1. Introduction
1.1. Purpose and Scope
This document provides the authoritative guide for the deployment, configuration, management, and incident response procedures for the [Your Company Name] Endpoint Protection Platform (EPP) and Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) capabilities, powered by our Cloud Defense AI engine. This manual is intended for Security Operators, System Administrators, and Incident Responders.

The scope encompasses all company-owned endpoints, including:

Windows 10/11 workstations and servers

macOS laptops and desktops

Linux servers and workstations

Virtual Desktops (VDI)

1.2. Platform Overview: Core Architecture
Our endpoint protection strategy is built on a cloud-native, AI-powered architecture. This provides significant advantages over traditional signature-based antivirus:

Lightweight Agent: A single, unified agent is installed on each endpoint.

Cloud-Based Correlation Engine: The agent streams telemetry (process execution, network connections, file modifications, etc.) in near real-time to the cloud-based security data lake.

AI and Machine Learning Engine: Cloud-based AI models analyze the aggregated telemetry from all endpoints worldwide to identify novel attack patterns, zero-day exploits, and sophisticated threats that evade traditional defenses. This includes:

Static AI: Analyzes file attributes without execution.

Behavioral AI: Models normal endpoint behavior and flags significant deviations.

Generic Exploit Detection: Identifies exploit-like behavior regardless of the specific vulnerability being targeted.

Centralized Management Console: A single web-based pane of glass for policy management, monitoring, investigation, and response across the entire fleet.

2. Deployment and Installation
2.1. Pre-Deployment Checklist
Inventory: Confirm a complete asset inventory of all endpoints to be protected (hostname, OS, IP, primary user).

Network Configuration: Ensure endpoints have outbound HTTPS (443) access to the Cloud Defense AI service URLs (e.g., *.yourclouddefenseai.com).

System Requirements: Verify endpoints meet minimum RAM, CPU, and disk space requirements.

Exclusion Coordination: Work with application owners to identify critical software that may require exclusions to avoid performance impacts.

Pilot Group: Identify a non-critical, representative group of endpoints for initial phased deployment.

2.2. Agent Deployment Methods
Method 1: Group Policy Object (GPO) - Recommended for Windows

Download the Windows agent MSI installer from the Cloud Defense AI console.

Create a shared network directory (e.g., \\fileserver\software\SecurityAgent).

Place the MSI and a transform file (MST) if needed for silent installation parameters into the directory.

Create a new GPO and link it to the target OU.

Navigate to Computer Configuration -> Policies -> Software Settings -> Software installation.

Right-click, select New -> Package, and browse to the network MSI location. Select Assigned.

Method 2: Mobile Device Management (MDM) - For macOS & BYOD

Utilize Jamf, Intune, or Workspace ONE to push the agent PKG file with predefined configuration profiles.

Method 3: Scripted Deployment via Configuration Management

Use Ansible, Puppet, Chef, or SCCM to execute a silent installation command across the fleet.

Example: msiexec /i "DefenseAI_Agent.msi" /qn /norestart SERVERURL=https://company.console.defenseai.com API_KEY=<Your_Deployment_Key>

2.3. Agent Health Monitoring
Agents automatically report health status to the console. Create a dashboard to monitor:

Agent Version: Identify endpoints with outdated agents.

Last Check-in Time: Identify stale or disconnected endpoints (>24 hours).

Installation Failures: Flag endpoints where the agent has failed to install or has crashed.

3. Policy Configuration
3.1. Core Prevention Policies
Policies are layered for defense-in-depth. Start with Report Mode and move to Block Mode after validating stability.

Policy Layer	Description	Recommended Setting
Antivirus / Anti-Malware	Signature-based and AI-powered prevention of known and unknown malware.	Block
Firewall	Host-based firewall controlling network traffic based on application, port, and protocol.	Enable with least-privilege rules
Device Control	Controls access to removable media (USB drives).	Block, or Read-Only for authorized groups
Exploit Protection	Mitigates techniques commonly used in exploits (e.g., ASLR, DEP, Stack Protection).	Enable (OS Hardening)
Web Control	Filters access to malicious or unwanted websites.	Block malicious categories
3.2. AI-Powered Behavioral Protection
This is the core of the next-gen capability. Configure these policies carefully.

Ransomware Mitigation: Monitors for mass file encryption patterns. Set to: Block

Malicious Script Detection: Analyzes PowerShell, CMD, VBScript, and Python for malicious intent. Set to: Block

Suspicious Process Behavior: Flags processes that perform injection, attempt to disable security tools, or exhibit lateral movement techniques. Set to: Block

Machine Learning Model Sensitivity: Adjust the sensitivity of the AI model. Start with Medium to reduce false positives, then increase to High for critical assets.

3.3. Exclusions
Exclusions weaken security posture and must be rigorously justified and documented.

File/Folder Exclusions: For database files, software repositories, or source code directories.

Example: C:\Program Files\YourCriticalApp\*.db

Process Exclusions: For legitimate applications that exhibit "noisy" behavior.

Example: C:\Tools\LegitAdminTool.exe

Process for Adding an Exclusion:

Receive a ticket from the application owner with a business justification.

Replicate the issue in a test environment to confirm the EPP is the cause.

Craft the exclusion as narrowly as possible.

Submit the change for approval by the Security Architect.

Deploy the exclusion to a pilot group first.

Monitor for any security incidents linked to the excluded path/process.

4. Monitoring and Alerting
4.1. Console Overview
The Cloud Defense AI console is organized into key sections:

Dashboard: Customizable view of top alerts, agent health, threat landscape, and detected MITRE ATT&CK techniques.

Alerts: Chronological list of all security detections from the AI engine. This is the primary investigative interface.

Endpoints: Inventory view of all managed assets with filtering and search capabilities.

Investigation: Tools for deep-dive analysis, including Process Tree, Search, and Live Response.

Policies: Central management of all security policies.

4.2. Tuning and False Positive Management
Triage: When a new alert is generated, the first step is to determine if it's a True Positive (TP) or False Positive (FP).

Investigate: Use the process tree, file details, and network connections provided in the alert to understand the context.

Action:

For a TP, initiate the Incident Response process.

For an FP, use the "Add Exclusion" feature or adjust the sensitivity of the relevant detection policy. Document the reason for the exclusion in the ticket.

Fine-Tune: Create custom detection rules to catch variants of the TP or to suppress future FPs.

4.3. SIEM Integration
All endpoint telemetry and alerts are forwarded to our central SIEM (e.g., Splunk, Elasticsearch) via the platform's syslog or API capabilities.

Primary Use Case: Correlate endpoint alerts with network (firewall, proxy) and cloud (Azure AD, AWS CloudTrail) logs for a holistic view of an attack chain.

Alerting: Create high-fidelity alerts in the SIEM based on EDR data (e.g., "Alert from EPP" AND "High Severity").

5. Incident Response & Forensics
5.1. Initial Triage and Classification
Upon receiving a high-severity alert, the analyst must classify it using the following matrix:

Severity	Description	Example	Initial Action
Critical	Successful, widespread intrusion or encryption.	Ransomware execution, C2 beacon.	Immediate Containment. Activate IR Plan.
High	Likely malicious activity with potential for impact.	Lateral movement attempt, exploit payload dropped.	Investigate immediately. Prepare for containment.
Medium	Potentially unwanted activity or suspicious behavior.	Script from unusual location, connection to low-rep IP.	Investigate within 24 hours.
Low / Info	Informational or clearly false positive.	Admin tool usage, known FP.	Document and close or tune.
5.2. Investigation Workflow
For a High/Critical alert, follow this investigative path within the EDR console:

Isolate the Endpoint: Use the "Network Containment" feature to block all inbound/outbound traffic from the endpoint without disconnecting it from the console.

Analyze the Process Tree: Identify the root parent process. Was it a scheduled task, a service, a user logon? Trace the execution chain from the benign start to the malicious end.

Inspect File Details: Examine the malicious file's location, hash, digital signature (if present), and creation time.

Review Network Connections: Identify the remote IP addresses and ports. Use threat intelligence feeds to check for known malicious indicators.

Scope the Impact: Use the search functionality to query all endpoints for related indicators of compromise (IOCs) like file hashes, IPs, or domain names. Determine if this is an isolated incident or a broader campaign.

Collect Artifacts: Use the "Live Response" feature to pull full forensic artifacts from the endpoint (e.g., RAM capture, specific registry hives, event logs) for deeper analysis.

5.3. Containment, Eradication, and Recovery
Containment: Already initiated via network isolation. If necessary, completely disconnect the endpoint from the network.

Eradication:

Terminate the malicious processes identified.

Use the EDR console to remotely delete or quarantine the malicious files.

Rotate credentials that may have been compromised on the affected system.

Recovery:

Restore the endpoint from a known-good backup after ensuring the backup itself is not infected.

Re-image the endpoint from a golden image for a guaranteed clean state.

Remove the network containment only after the endpoint is verified as clean and fully patched.

5.4. Post-Incident Activity
Root Cause Analysis (RCA): Document how the attack started, what controls failed, and what could have been detected sooner.

IOC Extraction: Export all relevant IOCs (hashes, IPs, domains, MITRE techniques) and add them to the blocklists in the EPP, firewall, and proxy.

Lessons Learned: Update policies, detection rules, and employee training based on the findings of the incident.

6. Maintenance and Best Practices
6.1. Regular Tasks
Task	Frequency	Responsible
Review and Acknowledge New Alerts	Daily	SOC Analyst
Monitor Agent Health Dashboard	Daily	Security Engineer
Review and Tune False Positives	Weekly	Security Engineer
Update Agent Version (if not auto)	Monthly	System Admin
Review and Update Security Policies	Quarterly	Security Architect
Conduct Threat Hunting Sessions	Quarterly	Threat Hunter
6.2. Performance Optimization
Baseline Monitoring: Monitor CPU and memory usage of the agent on different endpoint types. Adjust scanning schedules and exclusions if performance impact is reported.

Network Bandwidth: The agent is designed to be efficient. In low-bandwidth environments, policies can be adjusted to limit the frequency of certain telemetry transmissions.

6.3. Threat Hunting
Leverage the EDR's search capabilities to proactively hunt for threats.

Example Hunting Query:
"Find all processes where the parent process is spoolsv.exe and the child process is powershell.exe." (A known LOLBin technique for execution.)

Example Hypothesis:
"An attacker may be using WMI for lateral movement."
Query: "Search all endpoints for WMI events (wmic.exe process creation) where the command line contains an IP address."

7. Appendix
7.1. Glossary
EPP (Endpoint Protection Platform): Prevention-focused security solution.

EDR (Endpoint Detection and Response): Tooling focused on detection, investigation, and response.

IOC (Indicator of Compromise): A forensic artifact of an intrusion.

MITRE ATT&CK: A curated knowledge base of adversary tactics and techniques.

Telemetry: Data collected about the endpoint's activity and state.

7.2. Troubleshooting Common Issues
Agent won't install: Check administrator privileges, disk space, and conflicting software.

Agent not checking in: Check network connectivity (firewall rules, proxy settings) and DNS resolution for the cloud service.

High CPU/Memory usage: Check for on-demand scans running and review exclusions for the affected endpoint.

False Positives: Submit the file to the console for analysis and create an exclusion if justified.


#### FAQs
1. Technical & Consumer FAQs (FAQs.txt)
General & Architecture

Q1: What is the core architectural advantage of this platform over traditional antivirus?
A: Our platform is built on a cloud-native, AI-powered architecture. Unlike traditional signature-based antivirus that relies on known malware definitions, our lightweight agent streams endpoint telemetry (process execution, network connections, file modifications) to a cloud security data lake. There, advanced AI models (Static, Behavioral, and Generic Exploit Detection) analyze global data to identify novel attack patterns, zero-day exploits, and sophisticated threats that evade traditional defenses, providing superior protection and faster threat discovery.

Q2: What is the difference between the EPP and EDR capabilities?
A:

EPP (Endpoint Protection Platform): Focuses on prevention. This includes the signature and AI-powered anti-malware, firewall, device control, exploit protection, and web control features. Its primary goal is to stop threats before they can execute.

EDR (Endpoint Detection and Response): Focuses on detection, investigation, and response. This includes the advanced behavioral analytics, detailed process tree tracking, search capabilities, and live response features. Its primary goal is to provide visibility and tools to hunt for and remediate threats that bypass preventive controls.

Deployment & Installation

Q3: What are the pre-requisites for deploying the agent?
A: A successful deployment requires:

Complete Asset Inventory: A list of all endpoints (hostname, OS, IP, user).

Network Configuration: Endpoints must have outbound HTTPS (TCP/443) access to the Cloud Defense AI service URLs (e.g., *.yourclouddefenseai.com). Verify proxy settings if applicable.

System Resources: Verify endpoints meet minimum RAM, CPU, and disk space requirements (as specified in the detailed system requirements document).

Exclusion List: Coordinate with application owners to identify critical software that may require pre-defined exclusions.

Q4: The agent is not checking in to the console. What should I troubleshoot?
A: Follow this troubleshooting path:

Network Connectivity: Verify the endpoint can reach the Cloud Defense AI service URLs using telnet or Test-NetConnection on port 443.

Local Firewall: Check the local Windows Firewall or iptables (Linux) for rules that might be blocking the agent process.

Proxy Configuration: If a proxy is used, ensure the agent is configured with the correct proxy settings.

DNS Resolution: Confirm the endpoint can correctly resolve the Cloud Defense AI service domain names.

Agent Service Status: Check if the CloudDefenseAIAgent service is running on the endpoint.

Policy & Configuration

Q5: What is the recommended strategy for deploying new security policies?
A: Always adopt a phased approach. Start with policies set to Report Mode only. This allows you to observe detections in the console without impacting business operations. After a sufficient period of monitoring and tuning exclusions to eliminate false positives, change the policy action to Block Mode for full enforcement. This minimizes disruption and ensures operational stability.

Q6: A critical business application is being blocked. What is the official process for adding an exclusion?
A: The process for adding a security exclusion is strict to maintain posture:

Receive Ticket: An application owner submits a ticket with a full business justification.

Replicate & Confirm: The security team replicates the issue in a test environment to confirm our EPP is the cause.

Craft Narrowly: The exclusion is crafted as narrowly as possible (e.g., a specific file hash is preferred over a whole folder path).

Approval: The exclusion request is submitted for approval by a Security Architect.

Pilot & Deploy: The exclusion is deployed to a small pilot group first, then monitored before a wider rollout.

Document: The reason for the exclusion is documented in the ticket for audit purposes.

Incident Response

Q7: What are the immediate containment steps for a critical alert like ransomware?
A: For a Critical alert (e.g., ransomware execution):

Network Containment: Immediately use the EDR console's "Network Containment" feature to block all inbound/outbound traffic from the endpoint. This isolates it from the network without losing console connectivity.

Triage & Investigate: Quickly analyze the process tree to identify the malicious process and its origin.

Terminate Processes: Use the console to remotely terminate the malicious processes.

Quarantine Files: Quarantine the identified malicious files.

Escalate: Activate the full Incident Response plan.

Q8: How does the platform aid in forensic investigation?
A: The EDR console provides deep forensic capabilities:

Process Tree Analysis: Visualize the entire execution chain from a benign parent process to the malicious activity.

Global IOC Search: Query all endpoints in the fleet for related Indicators of Compromise (hashes, IPs, domains).

Live Response: Remotely connect to the endpoint to pull full forensic artifacts like RAM, specific registry hives, and event logs for deeper analysis without physically touching the machine.

2. Agent Installation Guide (Installation_Guide.txt)
Endpoint Protection Platform: Agent Installation Guide

1. Pre-Deployment Checklist

Inventory Completed: All target endpoints (hostname, OS, IP, user) are documented.

Network Access Verified: Outbound HTTPS (443) to *.yourclouddefenseai.com is open. Proxy configurations are ready if needed.

System Requirements Met: Endpoints meet minimum RAM, CPU, and disk space requirements.

Pilot Group Identified: A non-critical group of endpoints has been selected for initial deployment.

2. Deployment Methods

2.1. Windows Deployment via Group Policy (GPO)

Download: Obtain the Windows Agent MSI installer from the Cloud Defense AI console.

Prepare: Create a network share (e.g., \\fileserver\software\SecurityAgent). Place the MSI file and any MST transform files here.

Create GPO: Create a new Group Policy Object and link it to the target Organizational Unit (OU).

Configure Software Installation:

Navigate to Computer Configuration -> Policies -> Software Settings -> Software installation.

Right-click, select New -> Package.

Browse to the network path of the MSI file (e.g., \\fileserver\software\SecurityAgent\DefenseAI_Agent.msi).

Select Assigned.

Force Update: Run gpupdate /force on a test endpoint to trigger the installation.

2.2. Scripted Deployment for Windows (SCCM/Intune/Ansible)
Use the following silent installation command:

text
msiexec /i "DefenseAI_Agent_x64.msi" /qn /norestart SERVERURL=https://company.console.defenseai.com API_KEY=<Your_Unique_Deployment_Key>
Replace the MSI name, SERVERURL, and API_KEY with your specific values.

The /qn flag enables a completely silent install with no user interface.

2.3. macOS Deployment via MDM (e.g., Jamf)

Download: Obtain the macOS Agent PKG installer from the console.

Configure MDM: Upload the PKG file to your MDM administrator console.

Create Configuration Profile: Create a profile to deploy the necessary preferences, including the SERVERURL and API_KEY.

Scope & Deploy: Assign the package and configuration profile to the required devices or groups and deploy.

3. Post-Installation Validation

Check Console: Log in to the Cloud Defense AI console and navigate to the Endpoints section.

Verify Check-in: Confirm that the pilot group endpoints appear in the list and show a "Last Check-in" time of a few minutes ago.

Agent Health: Check the Dashboard for any agent health warnings (e.g., installation failures, disconnections).

3. Protection Policy Configuration Manual (Policy_Manual.txt)
Endpoint Protection Platform: Policy Configuration Manual

1. Core Prevention Policy Framework
Start all policies in Report Mode before moving to Block Mode after tuning.

Policy Layer	Description	Recommended Setting
Antivirus / Anti-Malware	Signature-based and AI-powered prevention of known and unknown malware.	Block
Firewall	Host-based firewall controlling network traffic based on application, port, and protocol. Adopt a least-privilege model.	Enable
Device Control	Controls access to removable media (USB drives).	Block (or Read-Only for authorized groups)
Exploit Protection	System hardening features that mitigate common exploit techniques (ASLR, DEP, Stack Protection).	Enable
Web Control	Filters access to known malicious or unwanted website categories.	Block Malicious Categories
2. AI-Powered Behavioral Protection Configuration
This is the core next-generation capability. Configure with care.

Ransomware Mitigation: Monitors for mass file encryption patterns. Set to: Block

Malicious Script Detection: Analyzes PowerShell, CMD, VBScript, and Python for malicious commands and intent. Set to: Block

Suspicious Process Behavior: Flags techniques like process injection, security tool disabling, and lateral movement. Set to: Block

Machine Learning Sensitivity: Adjusts the aggressiveness of the AI model.

Medium: Default setting. Good balance of detection and false positives.

High: For high-value assets. Maximizes detection but may increase false positives.

Low: For problem cases where performance is impacted; not recommended.

3. Exclusion Management Philosophy
Exclusions weaken security and must be meticulously justified and documented.

Types of Exclusions:

File/Folder Path: C:\Program Files\YourCriticalApp\*.db

Process Path: C:\Tools\LegitAdminTool.exe

Process Flow:

Ticket with business justification is submitted.

Security team replicates and confirms the issue in a test environment.

Exclusion is crafted as narrowly as possible (prefer Hash > File Path > Folder Path).

Change is approved by a Security Architect.

Deployed to a pilot group and monitored.

Action is documented in the ticket.

4. Incident Response Playbook (IR_Playbook.txt)
Endpoint Protection Platform: Incident Response Guide

1. Triage and Classification Matrix

Severity	Description	Example	Initial Action
Critical	Successful, widespread intrusion.	Ransomware execution, C2 beacon.	Immediate Containment. Activate full IR Plan.
High	Likely malicious activity with potential for impact.	Lateral movement attempt, exploit dropped.	Investigate immediately. Prepare containment measures.
Medium	Potentially unwanted or suspicious behavior.	Script from unusual location.	Investigate within 24 hours.
Low / Info	Informational or confirmed false positive.	Known admin tool usage.	Document, close, or tune policy.
2. Investigation Workflow (for High/Critical Alerts)

Contain: Immediately use the "Network Containment" feature on the endpoint in the EDR console.

Analyze: Investigate the alert. Use the "Process Tree" to find the root parent process (e.g., scheduled task, service, user logon).

Inspect: Examine the malicious file's location, hash, and digital signature.

Research: Check the network connections (IPs, domains) against threat intelligence feeds.

Scope: Use the "Search" functionality to hunt across all endpoints for related IOCs (hashes, IPs) to determine blast radius.

Collect: Use "Live Response" to pull forensic artifacts (RAM, registry hives, logs) for deeper analysis.

3. Eradication and Recovery Steps

Eradication:

Terminate malicious processes via the console.

Quarantine malicious files remotely.

Rotate all credentials stored on or used by the compromised endpoint.

Recovery:

Preferred: Re-image the endpoint from a known-good, golden image.

Alternative: Restore from a verified clean backup.

Only remove network containment after the endpoint is verified clean, patched, and back online.

4. Post-Incident Activities

Root Cause Analysis (RCA): Document the initial attack vector, why prevention failed, and how detection can be improved.

IOC Blocklisting: Export all IOCs (hashes, IPs, domains) and add them to blocklists in the EPP, firewalls, and proxies.

Lessons Learned: Update security policies, detection rules, and employee training based on incident findings.

Q1: I have this installed on my computer. Will it slow down my machine?
A: Our agent is designed to be lightweight and cloud-native, meaning most of the heavy analysis happens in the cloud, not on your computer. You should not notice a significant performance impact during normal use. You might see brief, temporary increases in activity during a scheduled scan or if a file is being deeply analyzed, but this is normal.

Q2: Why does the agent need to connect to the internet?
A: The connection to our cloud security brain is what makes our protection so powerful. It allows your endpoint to benefit from real-time threat intelligence gathered from millions of devices worldwide. It sends encrypted activity reports (telemetry) to the cloud, where our AI instantly analyzes it to spot new and emerging threats that have never been seen before, keeping you protected from the latest attacks.

Q3: A pop-up from your software blocked something I was doing. What should I do?
A: First, don't panic. Read the message carefully. It will tell you what was blocked (e.g., a program, a website) and why. If you recognize the action as something you intended to do (like running a trusted but uncommon tool), you can typically click "Allow" or "Restore" if you are sure it's safe. If you are unsure, or if you didn't initiate the action, do nothing—the block is protecting you. You can always contact the IT help desk for confirmation.

Q4: Can I pause the protection or turn it off?
A: Generally, no. The security policies are managed centrally by the IT team to ensure company devices are always protected. This is a mandatory control to keep both your device and the company network safe. If you are experiencing a specific issue (like a program not running), please contact the IT help desk instead of trying to disable protection yourself.

Interactions with Software & Tools

Q5: I'm trying to install new software for my work, but it's being blocked. What do I do?
A: Please submit a ticket to the IT help desk. Provide the name of the software, what you need it for, and the exact error message you see. The security team will review it, test it in a safe environment, and if it's legitimate, they will create a safe exception for it. Do not attempt to bypass the security controls yourself.

Q6: Why can't I use my personal USB drive on my work computer?
A: This is a security policy called "Device Control." USB drives are a common way for malware to spread unknowingly between computers. By blocking them (or making them read-only), we significantly reduce this risk. Please use company-approved cloud storage or file-sharing services to transfer work files.

Q7: I'm a developer and my build scripts/compilation tools are being flagged. How can I fix this?
A: This is a common scenario. Development tools often perform actions that look suspicious to security software (like creating many files quickly or running scripts). Please contact the IT help desk and explain your role and the tools you use. They can work with the security team to create targeted exclusions for your development directories that allow your work to continue without compromising overall security.

Alerting and Notifications

Q8: I got an alert that says "Malicious Behavior Detected." What does that mean? Did I do something wrong?
A: This alert means the AI detected a pattern of activity on your machine that closely matches known attack techniques. This is almost never because you "did something wrong." It usually means you clicked on something or visited a site that triggered a hidden malicious process. The software did its job by catching it. The most important step is to follow any instructions in the alert and contact the IT help desk immediately so they can investigate further.

Q9: Will the IT department see all of my personal browsing and activity?
A: Our focus is on security, not surveillance. The system is tuned to generate alerts only for specific, potentially malicious activities—not for general personal use. It doesn't record keystrokes, personal emails, or document contents. It focuses on behaviors like a program trying to encrypt files, connect to a known malicious website, or hide its execution. Your personal, legitimate activity is not the focus of monitoring.

Troubleshooting

Q10: The icon for your software in my system tray has a red "X" or a warning symbol. What does that mean?
A: This means the agent is not healthy. It could be disconnected from the cloud, out of date, or have a problem. The most common fix is to simply restart your computer. If the warning persists after a reboot, please contact the IT help desk, as your device may not be fully protected.

Q11: I'm working from a coffee shop and a message says the agent can't connect. What now?
A: This is likely because the public Wi-Fi is blocking the specific secure connection (HTTPS on port 443) that our agent needs. You are likely still protected by the local, on-device protections. For full protection, please connect to the company VPN, which will provide a secure pathway for the agent to phone home. Avoid handling sensitive work until you are on a trusted network.

1. Deployment & Installation

Q1: What are the system requirements before installing the agent?
A1: Each endpoint must meet minimum CPU, RAM, and disk requirements. Ensure outbound HTTPS (443) access to *.yourclouddefenseai.com and confirm no conflicting security software is running.

Q2: How do I deploy the agent on Windows endpoints?
A2: The recommended method is via Group Policy Object (GPO):

Place the MSI installer in a shared directory.

Create and link a new GPO to the target OU.

Add the MSI under Computer Configuration → Software Installation.
The agent will auto-install on reboot.

Q3: How can I deploy the agent on macOS devices?
A3: Use an MDM solution such as Jamf, Intune, or Workspace ONE to push the PKG installer along with the required configuration profiles.

Q4: What if the agent fails to install?
A4: Check for:

Admin privileges on the endpoint.

Enough disk space.

Conflicting AV/EDR software.

Correct installation parameters (SERVERURL and API_KEY).

2. Agent Health & Monitoring

Q5: How do I check if the agent is running properly?
A5: Log into the Cloud Defense AI console → Dashboard → Agent Health. Look for:

Version compliance.

Last check-in time (<24h).

Any installation failures or crash reports.

Q6: What does it mean if an endpoint hasn’t checked in for 24+ hours?
A6: Possible causes: endpoint is offline, network/firewall restrictions, or the agent service has stopped. Investigate connectivity first, then verify the agent locally.

3. Policy Management

Q7: How should I configure prevention policies initially?
A7: Start all prevention policies in Report Mode to monitor stability. Once validated, switch to Block Mode for stronger enforcement.

Q8: How do I handle exclusions safely?
A8: Follow the change-control process:

Business justification from app owner.

Replicate the issue in test environment.

Apply the narrowest exclusion possible.

Get approval from Security Architect.

Deploy to pilot → then broader rollout.

Q9: What’s the recommended setting for ransomware protection?
A9: Set Ransomware Mitigation to Block mode. This will prevent mass encryption behavior.

4. Alerts & Incident Response

Q10: How do I know if an alert is a False Positive?
A10: Use the alert investigation tools (Process Tree, file details, network connections). If benign, mark as FP, document justification, and tune policy or add exclusion.

Q11: What should I do if a high-severity alert triggers?
A11:

Isolate the endpoint using "Network Containment."

Investigate the process chain and file/network activity.

Check scope by searching for related IOCs across all endpoints.

If confirmed malicious → terminate processes, delete files, rotate credentials, and restore from backup if needed.

Q12: How do I export IOC data for broader defense?
A12: From the incident details, export hashes, domains, or IPs, then add them to blocklists across the EPP, firewall, and proxy.

5. Integrations & SIEM

Q13: Can I forward alerts to my SIEM (Splunk/Elastic)?
A13: Yes, use the platform’s syslog or API integration. Best practice: create SIEM rules to correlate EPP/EDR alerts with network and cloud logs.

Q14: What’s an example of a high-value correlation rule?
A14: In SIEM:

Trigger if: "Alert from EPP" AND "High Severity".
This reduces noise and ensures critical alerts are escalated immediately.

6. Maintenance & Optimization

Q15: How often should I update the agent?
A15: Agents should update automatically, but verify versions monthly. Push manual updates if endpoints are stale.

Q16: What if users report high CPU usage from the agent?
A16: Check if an on-demand scan is running. Review exclusions for the affected system and adjust scan schedules as needed.

Q17: How often should hunting queries be run?
A17: Quarterly at minimum, or more frequently during threat campaigns. Use queries to detect known attack patterns (e.g., suspicious PowerShell from spoolsv.exe).

Installation & Setup

Q: I received an email to install new security software. How do I know it's legitimate and not a phishing attempt?
A: Our legitimate installation email will always come from a verified company domain (e.g., it@yourcompany.com) and will never ask you for your password. If you are unsure, forward the email directly to the IT help desk for verification before clicking any links.

Q: The installation is stuck or failed. What should I do?
A: The most common fix is to restart your computer and try the installation process again. If it fails a second time, note any error codes you see and contact the IT help desk with those details.

Q: Do I need to uninstall my old antivirus before installing this?
A: Yes. The IT team will typically push a script to remove any conflicting old antivirus software. Having two active antivirus programs can cause system instability and should be avoided.

Q: I use a personal device for work (BYOD). Do I still need to install this?
A: If you access company data, email, or networks from your personal device, our security policy requires it to be protected. The agent is designed to respect your privacy while securing company assets.

Everyday Usage & Performance

Q: My computer feels slow after the installation. Is this normal?
A: It's normal to see a slight temporary increase in activity as the agent performs its initial scan and system baseline. This should settle down within a few hours. If performance remains poor after 24 hours, please contact the IT help desk.

Q: My fan is running loudly more often. Is the security software causing this?
A: It's possible. The software performs complex analysis which can use CPU resources, especially during scans or when analyzing a suspicious file. This is a sign it's actively working to protect your device.

Q: Can I schedule scans for a time when I'm not using my computer?
A: Scanning schedules are managed centrally by the IT team to ensure all company devices are regularly checked. You cannot change this setting yourself.

Q: Why does the software need to run all the time? Can't I just run a scan once a week?
A: Modern threats like ransomware and hackers operate in real-time. Constant protection is essential to block malicious activity the moment it happens, not just after the fact.

Q: I'm running a video conference and my computer is lagging. Can I temporarily boost performance?
A: The agent is designed to be resource-aware and should automatically lower its impact during high-demand tasks like video calls. If you experience consistent issues, report it to the IT help desk for investigation.

Pop-ups, Blocks, and Alerts

Q: A pop-up blocked a website I need for work. What can I do?
A: The pop-up should have an option to "report a false positive" or "request an exception." Click that. If not, note the website URL and the exact error message and submit a ticket to the IT help desk for review.

Q: I'm trying to access a personal website (like my bank) and it's blocked. Why?
A: This is unusual. Our web control is typically configured to only block categories known to be malicious (like phishing or malware sites). If a legitimate site is blocked, please report it to the IT help desk—it may be incorrectly categorized by the global database.

Q: A program I've used for years was suddenly quarantined. Why?
A: Even legitimate software can be exploited by attackers or have vulnerabilities. The AI may have detected new, suspicious behavior from it or it may have been infected. Do not restore it yourself. Contact IT with the program's name so they can investigate.

Q: I clicked "Allow" on a pop-up by mistake. What should I do?
A: Contact the IT help desk immediately. Explain what you allowed and when. They can check the logs for that activity and determine if it was safe or if further action is needed.

Q: I keep getting the same pop-up over and over. How do I make it stop?
A: This indicates a recurring action is being blocked. Please contact the IT help desk with a screenshot of the pop-up. They can either fix the root cause or create a permanent exception if the activity is legitimate.

Permissions and Privacy

Q: Why does the security software need administrator permissions?
A: To effectively protect your system, it needs deep integration to monitor all processes, including those run by administrators, and to take action like blocking malware or isolating the device.

Q: Is the security software monitoring my personal emails and messages?
A: No. It does not perform content monitoring of emails or messages. It focuses on behavioral patterns and file executions, not the personal content within your communications.

Q: Can the IT department see my personal files through this software?
A: No. The software does not arbitrarily access or stream your personal files. It only analyzes files that exhibit suspicious behavior or match known threat patterns for security purposes.

Q: I'm working on confidential HR/legal documents. Is that data being sent to the cloud?
A: No. The telemetry sent to the cloud consists of metadata (e.g., "a process named X tried to modify Y files"), not the actual content of the documents themselves.

Specific Scenarios

Q: I need to use a USB drive to load a presentation for a client. How can I get temporary access?
A: Contact the IT help desk in advance. They can grant temporary, time-limited access to USB ports for your account or device for a specific business purpose.

Q: I'm traveling and will have limited internet. Will my protection still work?
A: Yes. The agent has local protection capabilities and will continue to block known threats. It will cache events and sync with the cloud once you regain a stable internet connection.

Q: The software blocked a macro in my Excel spreadsheet. I need this macro to work.
A: Macros are a common method for attackers to deliver malware. Please submit a ticket to IT. They can verify the macro's safety and create a targeted exclusion if it is a legitimate business tool.

Q: I'm a developer and need to test code that might look like an exploit. What should I do?
A: Work with your manager and the IT security team to get a designated development or sandbox machine that has policy settings tailored for testing, preventing alerts on your primary work machine.

Q: My computer was isolated by the security team. What does that mean and what do I do?
A: "Network Containment" means the software has blocked your computer's internet and network access to prevent a potential threat from spreading. You will see a notification. Please contact the IT help desk immediately via your phone or another device for instructions.

Q: I received a warning about a "PUA" (Potentially Unwanted Application). What is that?
A: A PUA is not necessarily malware, but it is software that can negatively impact performance or privacy (e.g., adware, cryptocurrency miners). The IT team recommends blocking these for system health. You can request an exception if you have a business need.

Q: Can I whitelist a specific website or program myself?
A: No. For enterprise security and consistency, all policy changes and exclusions must be managed centrally by the IT and security teams.

Updates and Maintenance

Q: How does the software get updated? Do I need to do anything?
A: Updates are pushed automatically and silently by the IT team. You do not need to take any action. You may be prompted to restart your computer occasionally to complete a major update.

Q: I got a message that my agent is outdated. What does that mean?
A: This means your device has not received the latest security updates, leaving it vulnerable. Try restarting your computer to force an update check. If the message persists, contact IT.

Q: Why did I get logged out when the agent updated?
A: Some core security updates require a system restart to take effect. The IT team may configure these updates to force a restart to ensure your device is protected as quickly as possible.

Troubleshooting Common Issues

Q: The security icon is missing from my system tray. Am I still protected?
A: Not necessarily. The missing icon could mean the agent service is not running. Please restart your computer. If the icon does not return, contact the IT help desk immediately.

Q: I'm getting a "Connection Error" notification. What should I do?
A: First, check if you have internet access. If you do, try switching your network connection (e.g., from Wi-Fi to ethernet cable, or vice versa). If the problem continues, contact IT.

Q: My computer won't let me install any new software at all.
A: This is likely a security policy designed to prevent unauthorized software installation. You will need to submit a request to the IT help desk to have the software vetted and installed for you.

Q: A game I play at lunch is now blocked. Will IT unblock it?
A: Typically, no. Company security policies are designed to protect corporate assets and often block recreational software like games to reduce risk and maintain productivity.

Q: I think the security software is conflicting with another application. How can I check?
A: Note which application is having problems and the specific error messages. Contact the IT help desk with these details. They can investigate the logs to identify and resolve any conflicts.

Compliance and Policies

Q: Why is software from the official Apple App Store / Microsoft Store sometimes blocked?
A: Even official stores can occasionally host malicious or poorly developed apps that violate corporate security policies. Our system evaluates the app's behavior, not just its source.

Q: Can I disable the firewall for online gaming?
A: No. The firewall settings are mandated by corporate policy to secure the device on the network. Personal activities like online gaming are not permitted on company-owned devices.

Q: I work from home. Are my personal devices on my home network affected by this software?
A: No. The software only protects and monitors the company-owned device it is installed on. It does not affect your personal router, home network, or other personal devices.

General Security Questions

Q: Does this software protect me from phishing emails?
A: Yes, but in a specific way. It may not prevent the phishing email from arriving in your inbox, but it will block you from interacting with malicious links or attachments within the email if you click on them.

Q: If I have this, do I still need to be careful about what I click on?
A: Absolutely yes. No security software is 100% perfect. You are the first and most important line of defense. Always be skeptical of unsolicited emails, links, and attachments.

Q: How does this protect me from "Zero-Day" attacks?
A: Traditional antivirus doesn't know about zero-days. Our AI analyzes behavior. If an attack tries to exploit a brand-new vulnerability, the AI can still detect the malicious behavior (e.g., rapid file encryption, connection to a command server) and block it, even without a specific signature.

Q: What should I do if I think my computer is infected?
A: Disconnect from Wi-Fi and unplug the ethernet cable immediately to isolate the device. Then, contact the IT help desk right away using your phone or another computer.

Miscellaneous

Q: Is it okay to put my computer to sleep, or should I shut it down?
A: It's fine to use sleep mode for short periods. However, you should shut down and restart your computer at least once a week. This ensures critical security updates are applied and the agent remains healthy.

Q: Does this software work in Safe Mode?
A: Some core protections remain active even in Safe Mode, providing a layer of security while you troubleshoot other issues.

Q: I'm selling/returning my company computer. What happens to the software?
A: The IT department will use a centralized tool to completely uninstall the agent and wipe all data as part of the offboarding process. You do not need to do anything.

Q: Can I view the security history or logs on my own machine?
A: No. For security reasons, the detailed logs and event history are only accessible to authorized security personnel through the central management console to prevent tampering.

Q: Who do I contact if I have a question that isn't answered here?
A: For any security-related questions, alerts, or performance issues, always contact the IT Help Desk first. They are trained to triage your issue and will escalate it to the security team if needed.

General & Getting Started

What is Cloud Defense AI?
Cloud Defense AI is a next-gen cloud security platform that uses artificial intelligence to detect, prevent, and respond to threats across cloud environments. Unlike traditional tools, it continuously learns from attack patterns and adapts to your specific infrastructure. It covers everything from misconfiguration detection to insider threat prevention.

How do I get started with Cloud Defense AI?
After signing up, you’ll receive access to the Cloud Defense AI dashboard. From there, you can connect your cloud provider accounts (AWS, Azure, GCP, etc.) using secure API tokens. Once connected, the AI begins scanning for vulnerabilities and setting up baseline behavioral models within minutes.

Do I need special technical knowledge to use it?
Not necessarily. Cloud Defense AI is designed to be user-friendly, with guided onboarding and contextual recommendations. Security teams, DevOps engineers, and even compliance officers can use it effectively. That said, having some knowledge of cloud environments helps you leverage advanced features.

What cloud platforms does it support?
Currently, Cloud Defense AI supports AWS, Azure, GCP, Oracle Cloud, and hybrid deployments. It also supports Kubernetes clusters and Dockerized workloads. Multi-cloud and hybrid infrastructures can be managed from a single pane of glass.

Can I use Cloud Defense AI on a small-scale project or is it only for enterprises?
Cloud Defense AI is scalable. You can deploy it for a small project with a single AWS account or scale it up to secure multi-region enterprise workloads with thousands of users. The system automatically adjusts recommendations based on your environment’s complexity.

Features & Capabilities

How does Cloud Defense AI detect threats?
It uses a mix of AI-driven anomaly detection, signature-based rules, and behavioral analytics. The system monitors cloud activity, network traffic, identity permissions, and even access patterns. When suspicious behavior occurs (e.g., unusual API calls at odd hours), the AI raises alerts with a confidence score.

Can it stop threats in real-time?
Yes. Cloud Defense AI doesn’t just alert you—it can take automated actions like blocking malicious IPs, disabling compromised credentials, or rolling back unsafe configurations. This minimizes human response time and reduces the damage window.

Does it cover insider threats?
Absolutely. Many attacks come from misused credentials. Cloud Defense AI builds user behavior profiles, detecting anomalies such as data exfiltration attempts, unauthorized resource creation, or privilege escalation inside your cloud accounts.

How does it handle compliance requirements (e.g., GDPR, HIPAA, PCI-DSS)?
The platform comes with pre-built compliance templates. It automatically scans your infrastructure against frameworks like CIS Benchmarks, NIST, ISO 27001, and others. Compliance dashboards show which controls you meet and where you fall short.

Does Cloud Defense AI provide reports for audits?
Yes. You can generate audit-ready compliance reports with evidence of monitoring and remediation. These reports can be scheduled (weekly/monthly) and exported as PDFs for board reviews or regulator submissions.

Integrations

Can Cloud Defense AI integrate with my existing SIEM?
Yes. It integrates with Splunk, ELK, Sumo Logic, and other SIEMs so your security team has a unified view. Events are streamed in real-time via APIs or webhooks.

Does it work with DevOps tools?
Yes. Cloud Defense AI integrates with CI/CD pipelines (Jenkins, GitHub Actions, GitLab, Azure DevOps) to detect misconfigurations before deployment. This ensures security is built into your DevOps lifecycle.

What about SOAR and ticketing systems?
It integrates with SOAR platforms (like Palo Alto Cortex XSOAR) and ticketing tools like Jira, ServiceNow, and Slack for incident response automation.

Can it work with Identity & Access Management (IAM) solutions?
Yes. Cloud Defense AI monitors IAM policies and integrates with solutions like Okta, Azure AD, and AWS IAM for anomaly detection and auto-remediation of overly permissive roles.

Does it support API integrations?
Yes. Cloud Defense AI has a REST API for programmatic access to alerts, recommendations, and configurations. This allows custom dashboards or workflows to pull data directly.

AI & Explainability

How does the AI learn about threats?
It combines global threat intelligence feeds with machine learning models trained on billions of cloud activity logs. Over time, it personalizes detection to your environment, distinguishing between normal fluctuations and real threats.

Can I see why the AI flagged an event?
Yes. Each alert comes with an explainability layer, showing the AI’s reasoning—like which user, what action, and why it was suspicious. This helps security teams trust and verify AI decisions.

Does the AI model update automatically?
Yes. Threat models are continuously updated with the latest global threat intelligence. Updates occur securely in the background without downtime.

Can I fine-tune the AI models?
Yes. You can adjust sensitivity levels, whitelist certain behaviors, and even create custom rules that guide the AI’s decisions.

What if the AI generates false positives?
The system allows feedback loops. Marking an alert as a false positive helps retrain the AI, reducing similar alerts in the future.

Pricing & Billing

How is pricing structured?
Pricing is based on cloud accounts monitored, number of workloads, and data ingested. Small teams may opt for per-account billing, while enterprises often choose volume-based plans.

Is there a free trial?
Yes. A 14-day free trial lets you connect your environment and experience the platform without upfront costs.

Do you offer pay-as-you-go pricing?
Yes. Pay-as-you-go is available, especially useful for startups or teams with fluctuating workloads.

Do I need a long-term contract?
No. Monthly and annual subscriptions are available. Discounts apply for annual commitments.

Are there hidden costs?
No hidden fees. All features are included in the plan, with optional add-ons for advanced forensics or extended data retention.

Security & Privacy

How secure is Cloud Defense AI itself?
The platform is SOC 2 and ISO 27001 certified. Data is encrypted in transit (TLS 1.3) and at rest (AES-256). Role-based access ensures only authorized users can access dashboards.

Does it store customer data?
By default, only metadata is stored (e.g., log summaries, not full logs). Customers can opt for on-prem log storage while still using Cloud Defense AI’s analysis.

Where is data stored?
Data centers are region-specific. Customers in the EU, for example, can choose EU-only storage for GDPR compliance.

Can I run Cloud Defense AI on-premises?
Yes. An on-premise version is available for customers with strict data residency requirements, like financial institutions and government agencies.

How does it protect against supply chain attacks?
All software builds are signed and verified. Third-party dependencies are continuously scanned for vulnerabilities.

Troubleshooting & Support

Why am I not seeing alerts in my dashboard?
This could mean your environment hasn’t generated anomalies yet, or integrations weren’t configured properly. The troubleshooting wizard can test data flow from your cloud to Cloud Defense AI.

Why is my cloud account connection failing?
Most often, it’s due to missing IAM permissions. Ensure you’ve granted the necessary read-only or monitoring roles as outlined in the setup guide.

What if Cloud Defense AI detects a false threat?
You can mark it as a false positive. The AI will learn, and you can also fine-tune detection rules.

Why am I getting too many alerts?
This usually happens in the first week when the AI is still learning your environment. After it establishes a baseline, the noise reduces significantly.

What’s the best way to reach support?
Support is available 24/7 via email, Slack channel, or phone for enterprise customers. The help center also has troubleshooting guides and community forums.

Advanced & Strategic Questions

Can Cloud Defense AI help during an active incident?
Yes. It can switch into Incident Response mode, prioritizing threats, automating containment (e.g., disabling credentials), and guiding analysts step by step.

How does it help reduce security costs?
By automating detection, triage, and even remediation, Cloud Defense AI reduces the need for large SOC teams while improving efficiency.

Can it identify misconfigurations like open S3 buckets or exposed databases?
Yes. Cloud Defense AI runs continuous configuration scans and alerts you about risky setups like open buckets, unrestricted ports, or weak encryption.

Does it support Zero Trust architecture?
Yes. Cloud Defense AI enforces least privilege policies and monitors all identity activities, helping you implement Zero Trust strategies.

How does it prevent data exfiltration?
The AI monitors abnormal data transfers, detects suspicious API requests, and can block exfiltration attempts in real-time.

Future & Customization

Can I customize dashboards?
Yes. You can build role-specific dashboards—for executives (compliance overviews), SOC teams (alerts), or DevOps (config checks).

Does Cloud Defense AI support machine-to-machine identity monitoring?
Yes. It tracks service accounts and machine identities, which are often overlooked but highly exploited.

Can it integrate with threat intelligence feeds?
Yes. You can plug in custom threat feeds to enhance detection with industry-specific intelligence.

Does it support multi-tenancy?
Yes. MSPs and MSSPs can manage multiple customer environments securely from one console.

What’s on the roadmap for Cloud Defense AI?
Upcoming features include AI-driven attack simulations, deeper integration with cloud-native firewalls, and predictive risk scoring.

Miscellaneous

Can Cloud Defense AI help during cloud migration?
Yes. It ensures that as you move workloads, new cloud assets are secure and compliant from day one.

Does it detect crypto-mining malware in cloud workloads?
Yes. It looks for unusual compute spikes, suspicious binaries, and unauthorized container launches.

Can Cloud Defense AI scale automatically?
Yes. It scales with your cloud usage—whether you’re monitoring 10 resources or 10,000.

How long does deployment take?
Basic setup can be done in under 30 minutes. Full enterprise deployment with integrations may take a few days.

Why should I choose Cloud Defense AI over competitors?
Because it combines AI-driven intelligence, real-time remediation, compliance automation, and explainability in one platform. Many tools only do one or two of these things. Cloud Defense AI gives you end-to-end protection with adaptability built-in.

Q: I need to run a penetration testing tool for a security project. Will this get flagged?
A: Almost certainly. These tools use the same techniques as real attackers. You must coordinate with the IT security team beforehand. They can place your device in a special "test" policy or create precise exclusions for the duration of your project to prevent alerts.

Q: A file was quarantined that I need. How can I get it back?
A: Do not restore it yourself, as it may be malicious. Contact the IT help desk immediately. They can retrieve the file from quarantine, analyze it in a sandboxed environment to confirm it's safe, and then restore it for you if it's a false positive.

Q: Why is my external hard drive for backups being flagged by Device Control?
A: The policy likely blocks all removable storage by default for security. Contact IT to request an exception. They may whitelist the specific model of your encrypted backup drive or provide a company-approved cloud backup solution.

Q: The software is interfering with my VPN connection. What can I do?
A: This can happen if the VPN driver behaves in a way that resembles network manipulation used by malware. Please report the VPN client you are using and the specific error to the IT help desk. They can create an exclusion for the trusted VPN software.

Q: I'm using a virtual machine (VM) on my computer. Is the guest OS also protected?
A: No. The agent only protects the "host" operating system (the physical computer). The virtual machine is seen as a separate computer and would need its own agent installed inside the guest OS to be protected.

Network & Connectivity

Q: Why does the agent need to communicate so often? Can't it batch its updates?
A: The near real-time communication is what enables instant protection. As soon as a new threat is discovered anywhere in the world, the cloud can instantly push that intelligence to your device, and your device can immediately report suspicious activity for global analysis. Batching would create a dangerous delay.

Q: I'm on a very slow or metered internet connection. Will this software use a lot of data?
A: The agent is designed to be very bandwidth-efficient. It sends small packets of metadata, not large files. However, if you have extreme bandwidth constraints, contact IT. They can adjust policies to be even more conservative on your specific device.

Q: I can't connect to a network printer after the agent was updated.
A: Rarely, a security update can change firewall rules. Please restart your computer first. If the problem persists, contact the IT help desk with the printer model and IP address. They can adjust the network policy if necessary.

Policy & Control Clarifications

Q: Who decides what is considered a "Potentially Unwanted Application" (PUA)?
A: The classification is based on a combination of industry-standard threat intelligence feeds and internal security team policies that define what software is inappropriate for the corporate environment.

Q: Can I request a review of a website or application that is blocked?
A: Yes, absolutely. Please submit a ticket to the IT help desk with the URL or application name and a clear business justification for its use. The security team will re-evaluate it.

Q: Why can I install some software freely but need admin rights for others?
A: This is controlled by an Application Allowlist policy. Common, trusted business applications are pre-approved. Uncommon or new software requires admin rights to install, which forces a review by the IT help desk to ensure it's safe and necessary.

Privacy & Data Handling

Q: Where is the data from my endpoint sent and stored?
A: The telemetry data is transmitted over an encrypted connection and stored in our secure, cloud-based "security data lake," which is located in [specify region, e.g., US East, EU West]. This data is strictly used for security purposes.

Q: How long is the activity data from my computer retained?
A: For investigative purposes, endpoint activity data is typically retained for a period of [e.g., 30, 90, 180] days. This allows security teams to investigate past incidents and hunt for threats.

Q: If I leave the company, what happens to the data collected from my device?
A: Upon your departure, your device is wiped and reimaged. The historical telemetry data associated with your device's unique identifier remains in the secure console as part of the company's security records but is no longer tied to you as an individual.

Troubleshooting (Advanced)

Q: I'm seeing an error code in a pop-up (e.g., Error 0x800F0922). What does it mean?
A: Please take a screenshot of the exact error message and code and provide it to the IT help desk. These codes are specific and help technicians quickly diagnose the root cause of the problem.

Q: The software is preventing a Windows Update from installing.
A: In rare cases, a security policy might conflict with a system update process. Please contact IT. They can temporarily adjust policies to allow the update to proceed and then reinstate them afterwards.

Q: My computer was clean, but the software found an old virus in a zip file I forgot about. Should I be worried?
A: No, this is a good thing! The file was dormant and compressed, so it was not a active threat. The software has now cleaned it up, making your system safer.

Q: I'm trying to use a remote desktop application (like RDP, TeamViewer) and it's being blocked.
A: Remote access tools are frequently abused by attackers. Their use is often restricted or heavily monitored. You must get explicit approval from the IT help desk and have a valid business reason to use such software.

Understanding Alerts & Threats

Q: What does it mean if an alert mentions "MITRE ATT&CK Technique T1059 (Command-Line Interface)"?
A: MITRE ATT&CK is a framework that categorizes hacker techniques. This specific alert means the software detected a suspicious use of PowerShell or Command Prompt, which is a common way for attackers to run commands on a compromised system. The alert provides context on whether it was likely malicious.

Q: I got an alert for "Suspicious Process Injection." What is that?
A: This is a technique where a legitimate program is forced to run malicious code hidden inside it, effectively disguising the attack. It's a common advanced threat that this software is specifically designed to catch.

Q: What's the difference between a "Prevented" alert and a "Detected" alert?
A: A "Prevented" alert means the software successfully blocked the malicious activity. A "Detected" alert means the activity was found and logged, but may not have been fully stopped (e.g., it was in "Report-only" mode). All critical threats are set to "Prevent."

For Developers & Power Users

Q: I'm compiling code and the build process is being slowed down by scans.
A: This is common. You can request that your project's build/output directories be added to the exclusion list for performance scans. The IT team will require the specific paths to create a narrow, safe exclusion.

Q: My debugging tool is being flagged as malicious.
A: Debuggers have deep system access that can resemble malware behavior. Contact IT and explain your need for the tool. They can create an exclusion for the specific debugger executable.

Q: Why are scripts from my version control (Git) being analyzed?
A: The software analyzes all script executions (PowerShell, Python, etc.) regardless of source to prevent attacks that hide in trusted repositories. If this causes performance issues, talk to IT about possible exclusions for your repo directories.

Compliance & Reporting

Q: Can I get a report of all the security events on my machine?
A: Individual reports are not typically generated for users. If you have a specific need (e.g., for an audit), you can make a request to your manager and the security team, who can provide a sanitized report.

Q: My department is getting audited. Who can provide proof that our endpoints are protected?
A: The IT Security team can generate compliance reports from the central console showing the installation status, policy compliance, and overall security health of all devices in your department.

Miscellaneous & Hypotheticals

Q: If a hacker tried to disable this security software, could they?
A: The agent has self-protection mechanisms that make it very difficult to tamper with or disable without proper administrative credentials, which are controlled by the IT team.

Q: Is the protection still active when I'm logged out?
A: Yes. Core prevention features, like the firewall and on-access file scanning, run at the system level and are active even when no user is logged in.

Q: What happens if the cloud connection is down? Am I unprotected?
A: No. The agent has a significant amount of local intelligence and caching. It will continue to protect you using the latest known threat definitions and behavioral models it received. It will sync any missed events once the connection is restored.

Q: Can this software detect keyloggers?
A: Yes. It can detect keyloggers based on their behavior, such as attempting to hook into keyboard input functions across multiple processes, which is a common malicious technique.

Q: I downloaded a file, and it was instantly deleted. Why didn't it just ask me?
A: For known, high-confidence malware, the action is automatic and immediate to prevent any chance of execution. For less certain cases, it may prompt you. This "hands-off" approach for clear threats is the safest practice.

Q: Does this protect against malicious browser extensions?
A: Yes, it can. If a browser extension starts behaving maliciously (e.g., injecting ads, stealing data from web forms, connecting to suspicious servers), the behavioral AI can detect and block that activity.

Q: Why is a Windows system process sometimes flagged?
A: Attackers often hijack or mimic legitimate system processes. The AI flags these processes not because the process itself is bad, but because it is doing something unusual and malicious for that process (e.g., svchost.exe making an unexpected network connection).

Q: Can the security team remotely access my computer through this agent?
A: Yes, but only in a specific and audited way. The "Live Response" feature allows authorized security analysts to remotely investigate and contain a threat during a security incident. This access is tightly controlled and logged.

Q: Who should I contact if I have feedback about the software itself?
A: Please provide any feedback on usability or performance to the IT help desk. They have a channel to relay user feedback to the security team, who uses it to improve policies and user experience.

Q: I work odd hours. Will I get pop-up alerts in the middle of the night?
A: The software does not distinguish time of day. If malicious activity occurs, it will alert and block it immediately, regardless of the hour, to ensure protection.

Q: Is it possible the software could mistakenly delete a critical system file?
A: The exclusion lists are meticulously managed to prevent this. Core operating system files and directories are pre-emptively excluded from certain actions to ensure system stability. It is highly unlikely.

Q: A website says my browser is unsupported because of the "web control" feature.
A: The web control may be intercepting SSL traffic to scan encrypted connections for malware. This can sometimes cause browser certificate warnings. If you encounter this on a trusted site, report it to IT.

Q: How does this software impact my battery life on a laptop?
A: There may be a minor impact on battery life due to constant monitoring, but it is optimized to be minimal. Avoid running on-demand scans while on battery if you are concerned about longevity.

Q: Can I be notified by email for critical alerts on my machine?
A: Alert notifications are typically sent to the 24/7 Security Operations Center (SOC). They will contact you if immediate action is required. Users do not usually receive direct alert emails to prevent alert fatigue.

Q: What does "Cloud Defense AI" mean in simple terms?
A: It means the "brain" of the software is in the cloud. Your computer sends it notes about what's happening, and this massive cloud brain, trained on threats from everywhere, instantly tells your computer if what it's doing looks dangerous.

Q: If I'm already careful, why do I need such advanced protection?
A: Even the most careful user can be targeted by sophisticated attacks like those exploiting unknown vulnerabilities (zero-days) in legitimate software you use every day. This software provides a critical safety net against these advanced threats.

Q: My computer was compromised before this was installed. Can it find old threats?
A: During its initial scan, it will likely find and quarantine any active remnants of previous infections. However, it cannot retrofully "undo" any damage or data theft that occurred before it was installed.

Q: Does this software include a password manager or VPN?
A: No. This is specifically an Endpoint Protection Platform (EPP) and Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) solution. It focuses on protecting the endpoint itself from malware and hackers.

Q: Who can I thank for stopping a ransomware attack on my computer?
A: You can thank the security team who configured the policies! The "Ransomware Mitigation" feature is designed specifically to detect the tell-tale signs of mass file encryption and stop it immediately, potentially saving your work and the company from significant damage.

Q: I received a notification that my device is "non-compliant." What does that mean?
A: This means your device is missing a critical security requirement. This could be an outdated agent, an operating system that needs patching, or a disabled security policy. Please contact the IT help desk to resolve the issue.

Q: Can I run a personal antivirus scan alongside this?
A: No, you should not. Running multiple real-time antivirus products will cause conflicts, system instability, and degraded performance. This platform provides comprehensive protection on its own.

Q: The software found a threat on a network drive I have access to. What does that mean?
A: It means a file on that shared network location is malicious. Your access to it triggered the scan. Please immediately report this to the IT help desk, as it could affect many other users.

Q: What is "Live Response" and when is it used?
A: Live Response is a powerful feature that allows a security analyst to remotely, and with permission, access a command line on your computer during a serious security incident to investigate and contain the threat without physically touching your machine.

Q: Is my webcam and microphone protected from unauthorized access by this?
A: While not its primary function, the software can detect and alert on suspicious processes that attempt to access your webcam or microphone without your consent, as this is a common spyware behavior.